For my senior design project, OMID USA AI Farming Drone, I worked with the AI Models sub team and developed an AI model in detecting certain pests that are commonly found in a vineyard (or mentions none if it can’t find any). The model is initially trained as a ResNet18 model with an 94% accuracy, with an ResNet50 model currently being trained at the time of writing.  I was able to implement various skills from the Deep Learning class I took last year, which has helped me identify which type of model needs to be trained and what parameters might be best based on the data available and augmentation. The dataset which is used to train consists of 100 images of healthy leaves, Japanese beetles, Adult spotted Lanternfly, Early Nymph Lanternfly, Late Nymph lanternfly, and Grass Leafhoppers each. During training, the model will apply brightness, contrast, rotation, and crop augmentations in random values to each image so that the model will be used to various conditions of an image instead of relying on a particular condition of a photo. 

 

One of the greatest challenges I have faced was migrating the training session to the Google Cloud Platform due to the large amount of time taken in training for a Resnet50 model.  One of the issues I have faced was out of memory due to the limited specs available with free credits as I can’t add a GPU with the given restriction. To resolve the “Out of Memory" issue, I had implemented Lazy loading where the image is loaded only when called instead of preloading. The process is also being run in the linux vm using tmux new session. 

 

Our Group has implemented a flutter-based application and a firebase/BigQuery backend that allows users to login into their account and check various stats on their farm field zones such as Humidity, Soil temperature, temperature, etc. The user can also look at the historical chart of these stats as well. Our group has also implemented other AI Models such as disease detection model on the leaves, frost prediction, etc.  

Compared to my teammate's efforts, I realized that managing a large scope project like this needs higher level of coordination and effort than I anticipated. I would like to give shout out to Eli Rindler, for managing the web application, Huy Nguyen for managing the mobile version, Dylan Serger for implementing the frost predictor, and Ayushi Sharma for working of the disease detection model. I would also give a shout out to the Drone & Sensor Box team which is represented by another group. 
