# Individual Capstone Assessment
## Dylan Serger
## Spring 2026

I had a somewhat cross-discipline role, though primarily I was focused on improving the AI models for both disease detection via multispectral camera, as well as a frost prediction model utilizing the stationary sensors in each zone of the vineyard. 

For the disease detection model, I adjusted the previous approach keeping in mind the limited training data available in conjunction with our advisor’s specification of greater than 95% F1 accuracy. Originally, the model was a ResNet18 architecture and relied on a vine presence prediction model that was assumed to be accurate enough, though in fact the vine presence model was limited and unbalanced between positive and negative classes. Increasing the training data and rebalancing the classes for a superior vine presence model allowed for greater recall, leading to less prediction over non-vine pixel groups and greater coverage of vine positive groups. The disease prediction model was then improved by training across all the available data, with different splits, across four larger capacity models (ResNet50, ResNet101, ResNet152, and efficientNetB4), the knowledge from which is distilled back into a ResNet18 model that resulted in 96% F1 accuracy over the test set, as well as optimistically better generalization once deployed this coming grow season.

Apart from the Initial disease model, I also created a small MLP model that utilized temperate, humidity, ground temperature and humidity, and light intensity to determine the likelihood of frost (in this case if the temperature falls below the defined threshold of 32 degrees Fahrenheit) within the proceeding 6-hour period. This model utilizes sinusoidal encoding of cyclical data (essentially all of the data) to allow the model to better understand the relationship between the given data within the context of the given time of year or day. This model also relies on “online training” where each push of data to our BigQuery DB, my frost prediction container is triggered. For each zone separately, the model performs back-propagation on any old predictions not yet trained on, then performs inference on the new data. In contrast, if the current date is outside the given prediction window (to limit cost during off-seasons), the temperature has not fallen below the specified threshold for prediction (again to limit over usage), the previous 3 days have less than 75% of the expected data, or there exists a gap in the previous 3 days of data longer than 2 hours; The container or model will refuse to perform back-propagation or inference on the given window.

Primarily, from last fall, I containerized my disease prediction model for deployment to google cloud for utilization of high-powered GPU’s needed for performing inference on the large tiff files produced by the multispectral camera. Additionally, I discussed with my advisor during one of our weekly meetings the possibility of this frost-prediction model, to which I was encouraged to expand the projects scope and take on. I built this frost prediction model from scratch, utilizing docker containerization from the start, and later implementing the farmer specified thresholds and prediction windows after receiving feedback from my advisor. As a result, the largest growth I feel from this project is more closely related to containerization, implementation and deployment of cloud-run processes, and synchronization of various google cloud resources to reach a state of automation both in training and inference. My largest obstacle in this project came from a lack of training data for which no real solution was available. This was a result of no prior team having produced a working drone or data pipeline needed to collect the necessary data during growing season; ultimately this resulted in the need to change our approach to ensure that the models were not overfitting to the data we did have or added in from external sources.
