# Individual Capstone Assessment
## Dylan Serger

The OMID AI Drone project focuses on leveraging Artificial Intelligence to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of pesticide use on crops, ultimately lowering costs and increasing yields for farmers. The project and team are large, and we are inheriting the progress made by previous seniors, which includes a working drone, user application, and model—all of which need improvement. My focus on this project will be improving the accuracy of the model, which currently sits at slightly over 80%, and enhancing the integration of the model with the user application. Improving the efficacy of the product will hopefully bring it to a stage where it can become commercially viable and begin improving the lives of farmers. The project is open-source and sponsored by OMID USA, a non-profit organization, so the more functional the product is, the greater the benefit to farmers. Furthermore, this project is an opportunity for me to further develop my skills in building and working with AI models using PyTorch.

To prepare for this project, I took Deep Learning (CS 5173), which focused on building, training, and tuning deep learning models using PyTorch. In addition, I took Technical and Scientific Writing (ENGL 4092), which will enable me to draft valuable documentation for the project, both now and for future presentations. My experiences in Software Engineering (EECE 3093C) allow me to contribute effectively to whichever workflow our team adopts. Specifically, I’ve learned that most software engineering requires excellent documentation to achieve excellent results—both internally within the team and externally for communicating the project’s outcomes to stakeholders. Currently, I am enrolled in Intelligent Data Analysis (CS 5152), from which I expect to learn techniques for improving the model’s efficiency and accuracy, as well as deepen my understanding of statistical modeling. Finally, I am enrolled in Intro to Cloud Computing (CS 5165), which I believe will aid my understanding of and contributions to the project’s cloud-oriented aspects, including storage and cloud computation.

Beyond my academic background, my time at KFI Engineers as a controls engineer involved extensive on-site work and travel, so testing on farms will feel familiar. KFI also required collaboration with remote interns, giving me experience using tools like Microsoft Teams, and GitHub, to maintain productivity—skills I will leverage throughout the semester. Additionally, they required me to spend time working within a small team where all aspects of project management and completion were up to the team to accomplish and document; such skills are generally relevant to every project and will be for this one. After KFI, I worked as a Data Management and AI Governance intern at Fifth Third Bank, gaining experience in a live agile environment with access to large datasets. This rotation was particularly valuable for improving my understanding and efficiency in a modern software development environment and enhancing my communication and meeting management skills. Collectively, my four rotations—three at KFI and one at Fifth Third Bank—were invaluable in providing real-world experience applying classroom theory while managing financial, societal, and personal risks, all of which will be relevant to this project.

I am extremely excited and passionate about Artificial Intelligence and its many applications for improving the world. From predicting and treating illnesses, discovering new medicines, synthesizing stronger alloys, uncovering mathematical formulae, expanding human connectivity, or creating novel art, AI represents (in my view) the next major leap in computing and society. This project exemplifies how AI can positively impact our lives, and its open-source nature enhances its value. I am motivated by open-source development because I have directly benefited from many open-source projects throughout my life and am an advocate for technological equity. Personally, I aim to gain a stronger working knowledge of implementing PyTorch models on real-world datasets and applications, and to explore how PyTorch can be leveraged alongside cloud computing or external software to improve product functionality. I also have several other ideas for AI-driven solutions, and this project will help me understand how to implement a working, usable product.

My approach to this project will first be to review everything inherited from the previous seniors and understand which paths were explored and which may prove fruitful if pursued further. Our advisor has provided additional research materials and raw data, which I will utilize to develop an action plan for improving the model. Once I identify the paths with the highest improvement-to-time cost ratio, I will begin leveraging cloud computing to implement and parallelize techniques to improve model accuracy and generalization. This parallelized approach will help the team divide work efficiently and quickly identify approaches that are unsuitable for our data, saving resources. After this project, I hope to improve the model’s accuracy to well above 90%, with >95% as a stretch goal, while keeping the model lean and efficient to reduce overhead and improve commercial viability. Ultimately, I would like to see OMID USA successfully scale this project and extend its benefits to farmers far and wide.
